To someone who has experienced the terror
of October 7th Ahiad Ben-Yitzchak is a survivor
and he was enjoying life with friends on the
beach when bullets and missiles began to rain
down around them.
He and his friends did manage to escape and
get to an army base and they weren't safe
at all when they got there.
He decided to leave and make a run for his
car, eventually having to abandon it even
after he was shot.
He wrote this harrowing story of survival
and he joins us now to remind people of what
happened on October 7th and to remember his
friend who was killed.
First and foremost, how are you doing?
How is your injury, but more importantly because
I see you standing here before us mentally.
[11:46:14 AM]
mentally.
How are you doing?
>> I'm fine.
I'm really excited to be here.
To give me an opportunity and it's part of
my healing process to talk about it and it's
really helpful.
You know, I need some time.
I think about it a lot.
It's -- it's tough, but I'm fine.
Like, generally fine.
Most of the time I'm sad because I just heard
about the bibas family, it's the first time
I hear about it and it's -- it's break moi
heart.
>> Yeah.
>> But I'm fine.
I'm okay.
>> You are here with us.
You're here.
You're breathing.
You're alive and that's really the most important
thing.
>> Exactly.
>> This is a lot to go through.
I read your -- I thought it was a journal
entry, but it just came out of you.
You wrote it first in hebrew and then it was
translated and I want to read a bit of that
because it really struck me this morning and
had me at that point where I was choking up
and I could feel the fear in your
[11:47:14 AM]
could feel the fear in your words.
>> Right.
>> You say in a bit here.
You had gotten to this military installation.
You left because you could see that they were
going to be overwhelmed and the fighting was
coming and you say this, I hear the most dreadful
boom as you're running away, pinging, echoing
against the metal of the vehicle that you
had gotten into be followed by successive
gunshots and popping sounds of death.
Even before I started driving I thought I
had brought extinction to all of us.
Here we are being slaughtered in an intimate,
personal manner, more intimate than sex.
Whoever is shooting at us, knows us and wants
to kill us one by one.
We are a target.
A prize.
They're shooting at us with lust.
I know they wouldn't let go.
This is a new feeling.
The feeling of ending.
We have no chance and here you are.
>> Yeah.
I'm a very lucky guy.
>> How did you get through it?
>> It was a miracle, to be honest.
It was a miracle, and I didn't think I could
get out, not
[11:48:16 AM]
think I could get out, not alive, not in one
piece, but I'm here and I am stand on both
feet.
I feel really luck, and I still -- like, I
am overwholewomaned.
Still overwhelmed.
>> There's a sense that it's too much to go
through.
>> It was too much.
>> It's too much.
Speaking of too much, you and some of your
friends did survive, you had someone driving
and screaming at him and then you run into
the gunmen who are shooting at you and turn
around, jump out of the car and it catches
fire.
It's something out of a horror movie, really,
but one of your friends did not survive.
Can you tell us about her?
>> Yeah.
Her name is molgava.
I missed her a lot.
She was walking with me.
She was a cook like I did.
We had supposed to have a shift the same evening
together.
She was beautiful.
She was so kind, and I just missed her a lot.
[11:49:18 AM]
missed her a lot.
It's so sad.
I think about her a lot, and she's missing,
and I want -- I want people to know this story
for a memorial, and that's it.
She's a very good friend of mine and it break
my heart every day to think about her.
>> She's not here.
You did survive.
Your friends did survive.
You helped them survive and you had no idea,
but something pushed you to make it, and I'm
-- I'm so glad you're here.
>> Thank you.
Me, too.
>> And able to share stories.